this episode is sponsored by curiosity
stream get free access to my streaming
service nebula when you sign up for
curiosity stream using my link in the
description
[Music]
[Applause]
retro WB logo counts for a joker style
ATS opening credits a visual
representation of this movie it
physically hurts Arthur to put on a
happy face especially when you consider
the source telling him to do so his
abusive mother in addition to these
awesome tracking shots you might notice
how little of the sky we see and it's
deliberate even when we do see the sky
in a wide it's overcast
other times buildings were digitally
added to make Gotham its own oppressive
character in the movie that's always
trying to crush Arthur this moment of
awfulness that are really kicking a guy
while he's down brought to you by
Icelandic composer he'll they're good
Annie Thor
that can't possibly be pronouncing that
correctly anyway her oscar-nominated at
least absolutely killer score droning
and dragging and weeping this movie is
not the same without it and there's
never a wrong time for a little clown
comedy what a title card bold slightly
bleeding beyond the edges of the frame
reminding us the Joker is larger than
life larger than 65 millimeter another I
gotta say inspired choice for the Joker
laughter is supposed to be a joyful
sound instead it rips at Arthur's throat
and pulls his face into a grimace there
you have it whether he did or didn't he
knows he did and one more person who's
supposed to care about him doesn't I
just hope my death makes more sense than
my life appreciating your own joke and
also fake-out and shadowing since he was
already considering suicide
always a little bit of white paint left
over on his chin as if he can never
wholly take the clown mask off something
he learns to embrace the first time it
happens we're left to sit with his
condition and think about why and what's
going on
lesser writers write a line of dialogue
with a therapist comments on it this
stairs the now-famous stairs kneeling
home Arthur struggle and slog through
life apple a day keeps the doctor away
was Joaquin's motto during prep as in
that's all he ate I'm a great mayor
everybody says so he's the only one who
could save this city
clairvoyants unless you the type of
person who thinks Thomas Wayne's son
actually keeps the city in a perpetual
state of cry
this is the moment that justifies so
much of the movie are we watching a
fantasy
flash-forward flashback we don't know
Arthur or his story yet well enough to
know for sure his life seems goofy
enough the irony here is that Arthur is
so out of touch with social norms he
doesn't realize his fake laugh is off
footing so it makes its way into his
fantasy but once we get to know Arthur
we know this isn't how this interchange
would have gone at least pre joke
replication she says I was put here to
spread joy and laughter even fantasy
version Murray doesn't believe the lines
Arthur's writing for him the oldest the
lights show the audience all that stuff
I'd give it all up in a heartbeat to
have a kid like you it does become
pretty clear by the end it isn't real
and wouldn't you know what the
unreliable narrator comes up again also
a fantasy hugging simple shot but
something of a conceit for the entire
movie Arthur is just stretching his
leather shoes I guess but he shot from
behind in a way that makes anyone seeing
him uncomfortable he's all bone and
sinew but still comes off powerful and
inhuman
you could even project a sinister vibe
onto him or say a political movement or
other things being unintentionally
conveyed you can pay me back some other
time he will just in case you weren't
sure if that laugh was fake he's going
out of business for God's sake on their
delivery
Joaquin Phoenix is always a win the
first hint that Arthur sees things in a
different way than Sophie this
interchange was a complete win in his
mind but he clearly freaked her right
out Travis had the foresight to keep all
his guns unloaded but I may Anna dancing
skill is more important to Arthur than
we may have realized we're getting quick
glimpses into Arthur both his inability
to know what is funny about the stand-up
set laughing at the wrong times even
being confused when the audience laughs
as well as signs of dyslexia which
tracks with what we find out later since
dyslexia has been called a neurological
disorder
also we get put into Arthur shoes by
missing the punch line since Arthur
wouldn't know it anyway he's trying to
learn how to be a comic the same way you
would learn to drive a car by watching
Formula One or maybe a local drag race
but still and Arthur even applies that
observational humor to his own life I
was hoping you'd come in and rob the
place I mentioned the unreliable
narrator and really that confident
endearing smile is such a huge tell
anytime you'd like what you're seeing
assume you're only seeing what Arthur
wants you to see stand-up comedy you
should come see a show sometime not to
mention agreeing to that after
confronting him about stalking her oh
man something that should have us
worried for Arthur is actually
terrifying when you remember that it's
coming from the Joker I'll admit when
this scene started I was literally
thinking come on we get it he's having a
rough life you don't need to oh never
mind we also don't see Arthur reach for
the gun adding to the unreliable
narrator and the snapping factor of
these murders not to mention Arthur's
gun is a Smith & Wesson Model 36 a 38
special which is a revolver that holds
five rounds one two three four five six
seven eight I don't think this guy is
reloading some people felt the dancing
was just quirkiness to be weird but the
dancing is a pretty big part of Arthur
and his connection to his own reality he
dances freely as a clown because he can
and he wants to he also believes he's a
great dancer and when he's feeling
powerful playing with his new gun coming
up with jokes he thinks her funny
murdering three people he almost can't
stop the dance
and now his own personal dance music
drowns out the world as he slips into
fantasy you could even look at the
dancing as the start of the veneer of
reality peeling back for Arthur is that
part of you knew I thought that if your
dancing doesn't do the trick I'm just
gonna shoot yourself more clairvoyance
and the guy was singing that his name
was chlorophyll which is crazy because
that's my clown name work which could be
evidence that the story is an
embellishment at best human I didn't
know if I really existed all I have
negative thoughts trailers destroy good
lines make them gone and then memes
reduce them to atoms still aligned still
a meme
John Wayne Gacy reference still think
Arthur's an antihero
that's relatable in the worst way you
open your mouth to speak in your vocal
courses don't work get to breathe before
speaking
spider if you can make the crowd laugh
again feeling powerful after his date so
more dancing right past the initial
confrontation another jarring smack to
the senses Thomas Waynes backstories
vary from version to version but for
this world to have the general public
seemed to embrace him as the beacon he
often is but of course in Joker's
version of events he's just plain evil
the subtext of Joker creating Batman
this time even foreshadowing their
future meetings with the bars between
them you stretch enough clown shoes you
can choke the life out of just about
anybody they said I wasn't funny enough
each step along Arthur's transformation
we get moments where he Peaks his head
above his previous limitations each new
level of confidence coincides with an
event the murders learning the truth
about his mom and the confrontation of
his supposed stepbrother I also think he
stopped his meds and they're leaving his
system slowly it's left open-ended after
his last meeting with his therapist when
he actually stops taking them am I
supposed to get my medication no even
the doors hate the poor in this society
not everything subtle woohoo a glance
that suggests he's breaking free from
his fantasy right there of all the
terrible things to happen to Arthur
that's number one the worst Murray just
repeated his punchline and got a laugh
as if Arthur's intent wasn't
cisely that self-deprecation style humor
look the delivery wasn't perfect but he
would have gotten a chuckle sometimes
the taxi driver nods are quick and
subtle other times not exactly a match
cut but a fun transition nonetheless
unsettling scene either way but first
particular neurological disorders crave
confinement like a security blanket
you could also say Arthur went into his
cocoon and Joker came out not sure how
since that looks like one of those
locked from the outside fridges fun fact
from this creepy silent screaming scene
John Cassian is also an Arkham inmate on
Gotham the show quick thinking
yikes just reason over the lobotomy
there things are falling into place and
now as it starts to unravel we get to
see Arthur remembering the one real
thing that happened between him and
Sophie said a Jay
and the horror string slowly lead us to
confirm what we've been suspecting for a
while
since we're already talking about the
score how about the shining horns
marking Arthur's exit pain and terror
mixed into an uncontrollable maniacal
laugh almost like Arthur has no control
over his transformation this just in
only Joaquin is up to the task of this
Thoreau impersonation knock knock
the saddest part is that I believe
Arthur thinks he'd get a laugh from that
punchline you know sometimes it's hard
to keep your brain from thinking oh
right because you Joker but that's when
you consider that Arthur vindictively
wants to play the part that Murray
created for him as the failed comic
Joker and he's ready to take credit for
the murders he needs to embrace the
persona of the murderer who had that
green hairpiece it makes sense what's
with the makeup then my mom died it's
already state court said that the
creepiest stance and look ever thank you
thank you so much I just wanna move I
suppose Oh a freak intense moment that's
perfectly Joker every other murderer
would be worrying about Gary talking
considering killing him so we're freaked
out that the chain lock was a ploy just
to mess with Gary but he's full Joker
now he likes Gary and he only kills
awful people nothing else matters
[Music]
and now the stairs that were a symbol of
Arthur's struggle to climb up are a
breeze to dance down as he fully
embodies his new skin dancing not in
private not for work but because it's
part of who he is and he's gonna let it
out now and inside Arthur's head the
universe's soundtrack is cheering him on
but once we pull back we get to hear and
feel what's really going on it's not
triumphant it's tragic and it's not a
perfect match but the track seems to be
at least based on a slowed down version
of Gary Glitter's hey song I'm gonna
keep bringing this up but I really like
the idea that Arthur is just living out
a fantasy at this point he's lost his
grasp on what's real and even if
everything that's happening is 100% real
all his fear is gone because he sees
himself as the architect of his own
reality and truly has nothing to lose no
remorse no guilt it's funny to him and
he's cool with that now but not as cool
as you'll be when I seamlessly segue to
how you can see part two right now
before it's up on YouTube tomorrow you
just need to slow mo dance your way on
over to today's sponsor a curiosity
stream who has partnered with my new
streaming service nebula where both
videos are already published and when I
say my I mean that together with a bunch
of other amazing youtubers we designed
and built a streaming service video
platform for those of you who don't want
to see ads before after during content
genuinely if you want to watch this
video on nebula there's a different
ending because I don't need to tell
people on nebula about nebula it's also
given us a lot more freedom to try out
new things I have an original right now
that's part of our working titles series
where we talk about TV show title
sequences that's all about stranger
things and we've partnered with
curiosity streams so that when you sign
up with them through my link you not
only get one month free of curiosity
stream you get access to nebula for free
and curiosity stream is only $2.99 a
month after that and you can't go wrong
with curiosity stream because they have
thousands of nonfiction titles I wanted
to send you to a title that ties into
Joker but honestly every time I go to
curiosity stream I get sucked into
something about dinosaurs so go check
out the rise and fall of t-rex because
Joker was also scary and killed things
sign up today at my link in the
description to get one month free and
nebula free forever as long as you stay
subscribed and since the last time I
talked about nebula a bunch more working
titles episodes have been created
Battlestar Galactica from me a molder
The Simpsons from now you see it one
punch man from nan dovey movies and even
more upcoming like gravity falls West
world Parks and Rec you check out the
link in the description parts
and two of everything great about Joker
with my in-depth thoughts are on nebula
now and will be up here tomorrow and
just to be clear I'm never going to just
turn content that I make on YouTube into
content on nebula everything on nebula
will be extra on top of my YouTube stuff
but you will often get early access to
YouTube stuff on nebula so use my link
in the description and you get a full
month free
[Music]
you